• # Inside let_me_free-0.7.1.jar: A Minecraft Horror Mod With Real Security Risks

  A static security review of let_me_free-0.7.1.jar found that the Minecraft Fabric mod extends its horror experience beyond the game. It can collect network information, open operating-system terminals, create files, and suspend
  players’ computers.

  More seriously, weaknesses in its implementation could allow a malicious Minecraft server to execute arbitrary commands on Windows computers running the mod.

  ## What Was Examined

  The reviewed file was:

  let_me_free-0.7.1.jar
  SHA-256: 43cd329c556627aa927a9edf311f557e49b7f2f6e7ffff0d508e3b9960de3aad

  The JAR is an unsigned Fabric mod targeting Minecraft 1.21.11. Its archive contains 148 Java class files alongside expected textures, sounds, and JSON resources.

  The review included:

  - Archive integrity and signature checks
  - File and resource inventory
  - Java bytecode disassembly
  - Decompilation of the mod’s classes
  - Searches for command execution, networking, filesystem access, persistence, credential theft, and obfuscation
  - ClamAV scanning

  The JAR was inspected statically and was not launched inside Minecraft.

  ## Server-Controlled Computer Suspension

  The mod registers a server-to-client packet named horrormod:shutdown. When a client receives this packet, the mod immediately attempts to suspend the computer.

  It executes different commands depending on the operating system:

  Windows: rundll32.exe powrprof.dll,SetSuspendState 0,1,0
  macOS:   pmset sleepnow
  Linux:   systemctl suspend

  The client does not ask for confirmation before executing the command.

  This feature is enabled by default. It can be triggered by normal horror events, privileged commands, certain chat messages, or repeatedly attempting to sleep in a Minecraft bed.

  Although the mod displays a warning mentioning computer interactions, allowing a game server to suspend a player’s computer remains a substantial security and availability risk.

  ## Remote Command Execution Risk

  The most severe finding affects Windows clients.

  The mod accepts server-provided terminal messages through a horrormod:terminal packet. It writes those messages into a temporary .bat file and executes the file using cmd.exe.

  The mod attempts to sanitize messages by escaping ampersands. However, Windows batch files support several other command-control characters. Characters such as pipes and carriage returns are not safely handled.

  As a result, a malicious or compromised Minecraft server could potentially construct a terminal message that executes arbitrary Windows commands.

  The packet limits messages to approximately 4,096 characters, but that is more than sufficient for many harmful commands. Successful exploitation would run with the same operating-system permissions as Minecraft.

  Linux and macOS messages receive more appropriate single-quote escaping. No equivalent direct message-injection issue was confirmed for those platforms, although the mod still deliberately creates and executes shell scripts.

  ## Hardcoded Privileged Passcode

  The mod protects powerful /horror commands with a passcode. However, that passcode is hardcoded directly into the distributed JAR:

  LMF2015

  Anyone with access to the mod can extract this passcode. A player who uses it can unlock commands capable of targeting other players with terminal windows, computer suspension, visual effects, and disruptive events.

  A hardcoded shared secret inside publicly distributed client software cannot provide meaningful authorization.

  ## Unprotected Configuration Commands

  The /horror_config command does not appear to require operator permissions or the privileged passcode.

  Any player may therefore be able to change server-wide settings, including:

  - Enabling computer-suspension behavior
  - Enforcing minimum volume settings
  - Enabling flashing images
  - Changing jumpscare sound behavior

  This is particularly dangerous because the shutdown option is not included in the configuration packet synchronized to clients. A server can enable it without giving affected clients meaningful control over the setting.

  ## Public IP and Operating-System Collection

  Whenever the client joins a server, the mod contacts one of these services:

  https://api.ipify.org
  https://checkip.amazonaws.com

  It retrieves the player’s public IP address, reads the operating system name, and sends both values to the Minecraft server through a custom packet.

  The server stores this information and may use the IP address to look up the player’s country through:

  http://ip-api.com

  The country lookup uses unencrypted HTTP.

  This behavior does not appear to steal credentials or authentication tokens, but it unnecessarily exposes client information to every server running the mod.

  ## Filesystem and Terminal Activity

  The mod creates temporary .bat and .sh scripts to display terminal messages. These files are made executable where appropriate and are not deleted afterward.

  It can also create a file named recording 1.txt on the player’s Desktop as part of a horror event.

  No persistence mechanism, host-file deletion behavior, or attempt to overwrite unrelated user files was identified. Nevertheless, a Minecraft mod creating and executing host-level scripts is an unusually dangerous design choice.

  ## Additional Safety Concerns

  The mod can remotely alter several client settings and behaviors:

  - Force the game’s master volume to 100%
  - Play sudden loud sounds
  - Display full-screen flashing images
  - Invert mouse controls
  - Change render distance
  - Force the player’s camera toward coordinates
  - Open terminal windows
  - Disconnect the player or stop a hosted game

  Some network-provided visual parameters are insufficiently validated. For example, malformed flashing-image timing values could cause a divide-by-zero error and crash the client.

  ## What Was Not Found

  The review did not identify code designed to steal:

  - Minecraft authentication tokens
  - Browser credentials
  - Discord tokens
  - SSH keys
  - Passwords
  - Cryptocurrency wallets

  The archive did not contain native executables, bundled secondary JARs, or obvious persistence mechanisms.

  ClamAV did not report a known malware signature. However, antivirus results do not make this JAR safe. Its most serious problems are legitimate Java features being used dangerously rather than recognizable malware components.

  ## Conclusion

  let_me_free-0.7.1.jar should not be considered safe to run.

  Some of its host-computer interactions are intentional and disclosed by an in-game warning. However, the mod’s design gives Minecraft servers excessive control over client computers. The Windows terminal-message implementation creates
  a credible remote command execution vulnerability, while the hardcoded passcode and unprotected configuration commands make abuse significantly easier.

  Players should remove or quarantine this version and use a version with all computer-interaction features removed. Any safe replacement should eliminate host command execution entirely, stop collecting public IP addresses, require
  proper server permissions, and validate every value received from network packets.
